>> Evgenii Ray: So let's talk
about how we talk to the server.
Imagine that we're trying to build
the Shop Administration app with two main
endpoints.
The one is to track new orders,
the second one is to chat with employees.
What are the technologies we would use for
that, and what is the stack?
So let's first overview
the protocols available to us.
So there are two main protocols.
One is UDP, the second one is TCP.
The UDP is the protocol that doesn't
guarantee the package from the server
received in the full size.
So when you receive the data from the UDP,
you just request the server and
the server does not ensure that
the data is received by the client.
So this means there is
some data loss in process.
This protocol is heavily used in video
streaming where you can lose some
data packages from file to transfer.
So your video stream quality may lose
some bytes, but it's not critical.
So it basically provides the response and
if the response is not provided,
that's fine.
The server can continue to fire
the response, but TCP is different.
TCP ensures that the data
requested by the client and
sent by the server is received in full.
So for that, it does the 3-way handshake.
So basically, it calls the server
with a synchronous package to tell,
okay, server, I want to connect with you.
Then the server sends the sync acknowledge
package, saying that, okay, client,
I can also connect with you.
And then the clients finally acknowledge,
okay, let's have the conversation now.
So this 3-way sync provides
the kind of insurance that
the data between the client and
the server is received.
So and then the client makes a request.
So and as you can see this because we
need to do free network trips now,
the TCP is generally slower than the UDP.
So the main benefit of UDP is speed,
while the TCP ensures data validity.
>> Evgenii Ray: And there are some
branches of these protocols.
So the first and how, basically,
the web runs is the HTTP protocol.
The HTTP 1.1 is based on TCP,
and there is also HTPP 2,
which is basically the new protocol, but
it still inherits
the properties of HTPP 1, and
it's still backed by the TCP and
there are also web sockets.
So web sockets slightly different
because they do not utilize htpp 1.
They use htpp 1 only to
initiate the first request for
the server, and then they upgrade to TCP.
So it's basically,
the web sockets are fully TCP-based.
And there is a server sent
events that are based on htpp 2,
which is the server push technology.
And we're gonna look at all of this
protocols just in a few slides.
Then there is a UDP, and UDP, there is a
protocol developed by Google called QUIK.
And QUIK is using the UDP under the hood.
And the new protocol, HTPP 3, is actually
based on the QUIK, which is based on UDP.
So we are moving from TCP to UDP soon for
the ICP 3 protocol.
And also there is a web RTC which
is used for the streaming and
even this stream now is stream
probably for the web RTC now.
>> Evgenii Ray: Okay, let's get back
to the examples with our application
examples, so we have the first
endpoint getting new orders.
So how would we design this?
So the first thing that we could use
is the technique called long polling or
short polling.
It's basically making the normal
get call every specify timeframe,
for instance, every 20 seconds,
and it's very easy to implement.
So we can just set up the interval and
use the fetch request and
call the server every 20 seconds.
So what are the issue of the log
polling for getting new orders?
So the first one is the HTTP protocol.
Since we need to establish
the 3-way handshake
with the server, it will be pretty slow.
And when we establish the HTTP connection,
we open a new TCP socket.
And TCP socket apparently takes CPU and
also drains energy as a result.
And it also has the property of
an inefficient network usage because
when you establish the connection with
the server, you send the metadata,
which is the headers, with the request.
And if you are on HTTP 1,
then the header data is not compressed and
you may end up sending 50 kilobytes every
request of just any header data and
HTTP 2 improve the situation
by compressing the headers.
But we still have this 3-way
handshake that we need to establish.
And there is one thing is that the low
polling and short polling actually drains
the battery of the mobile devices because
you need to maintain your TCP socket open.
And when your TCP socket is open, the key
thing how the mobile module is structured.
So in your phone,
your mobile network module has two modes.
One is model, it's basically,
receive only,
when this module in the receive only mode.
So it's very energy efficient,
but it can only receive the data.
But there is also a duplex mode where you
can send the data and receive the data.
And it's not energy efficient as a result.
So when we use the long polling, the
mobile device utilizes a duplex antenna.
So it receives the data and
sends the data.
And if we run a quick experiment,
for instance,
we have the 2,000 battery, and
we know the average energy drain.
So it takes only almost four hours to
drain the full battery by maintaining
just one socket opened.
And I attached a link to
the research paper that you
can use if you are interested
in reading the whole paper.
So this is the problem number one,
CPU utilization and the energy drain.
So this is not an issue for
desktop apps where we don't think about
the battery of the device because
we are plugged into energy network.
But this isn't a big deal for
the mobile devices.
Where we need to be very network and
energy efficient because
we have limited network bandwidth and
the battery.
The second problem is the latency.
The long polling and short polling
latency can be initial mobile devices.
And this happens when, for instance,
you are on the fast train or
in a fast car, and then you
are connected to some network tower.
So then you sit on your train,
you may end up losing the connection and
reconnecting to the new network tower.
So now you need to reestablish
the connection again,
send the address and
do the 3-way handshake.
And if you change your network
towers multiple times,
imagine that the latency can
be significantly increased.
And also,
the problem with the long polling is that
you need to re-implement reconnection.
Every request to the server, which is
done through the REST API is stateless.
So you will lose the state and
you will need to re-implement
some infrastructure on
the server side to do this.
So in a long run for
the mobile applications,
it's actually costs more to support
the long polling money wise, of course.
So what is the summary then?
So the long polling is very good.
It's very easy and cheap to implement,
and definitely there is no
additional infrastructure required,
unless you work with the mobile apps.
If you work with the mobile apps, then
there is an issue that it's not battery
efficient because it's used CPU
to maintain the TCP socket.
And it's also not network and data
efficient because you send in the headers
with a request when you do
the 3-way handshake and
when you try to request the data,
yet you are trying to receive.
And if you're on HTTP 1,
the situation is even worse,
because HTTP 1 sends
too much overhead data.
And so what is the use case then?
The use case is actually for,
the long polling can be used with
desktop apps where we don't care
about the network bandwidth and
also about the latency
because we're stationary.
We do not connect to
different mobile towers and
also we do not care
about the energy drain.
So it's also pretty cheap to implement for
desktop users and
it's pretty well suited, but
when it comes to mobile web application,
then you would need to consider
a different technique.